.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH LOGTOP 1 "April 16, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH "NAME"
logtop \- Realtime log line rate analyser
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B logtop
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
 \fBlogtop\fP is a System Administrator tool analyzing line rate on stdin.
 It reads on stdin and print a constantly updated result
 displaying, in columns:
 Line number, count, frequency, and the actual line.

  $ tail \-f FILE | \fBlogtop\fP
 is the friendly version of:
  $ watch 'tail FILE | sort | uniq \-c | sort \-gr'
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-size=K
Only keep K lines in memory, instead of 10000.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Do not display a live view of the data, only display a top at exit.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-line-by-line=K
Print result line by line, in a machine friendly format, K is the
number of result to print per line.

  Line by line format is : [%d %f %s\\t]*\\n
    %d : Number of occurences
    %f : Frequency of apparition
    %s : String (Control chars replaced by dots.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-interval=K
Interval between graphical updates, in seconds. Defaults to 1.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Here are some \fBlogtop\fP usage examples.
.PP
.PP
\fBtail \-f cache.log | grep \-o "HIT\\|MISS" | logtop\fR
.PP
Realtime hit / miss ratio on some caching software log file.
.PP
\fBtail \-f access.log | cut \-d' ' \-f1 | logtop \-s 10000\fR
.PP
Realtime most querying IPs on your server, as long as log lines in access.log
starts with the client IP.
.PP
\fBtail \-f access.log | cut \-d' ' \-f7 | logtop \-s 10000\fR
.PP
Realtime most requested web pages in a NCSA like log file.
.PP
\fBcat auth.log | grep \-v "CRON" | grep \-o ": .*" | logtop \-q \-s 100000\fR
.PP
Display a one\-shot simple analyse of your auth.log.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR watch (1)
.br
.SH "AUTHOR"
logtop was written by Julien Palard.
.PP
This manual page was written by Julien Palard <julien@palard.fr>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
